# Hurrey-Hackathon-Submission

## Project Team Details :
1. Arpit Saikia, NIT Silchar
2. Dipan Patgiri, NIT Silchar 
3. Somya Kasaudhan, NIT Silchar
4. Diptabh Medhi, NIT Silchar
5. Sameer Zaidi, NIT Silchar


# Project Explanation :

 We are designing an app that minimizes the manual data input into the database using a camera of mobile phone and ML algorithms, after the evaluation of the answer scripts is done. 

We are employing a three step procedure to convert the data into digital format:

1.Writing the marks in a given format

2.Scanning it from the application

3.Processing the text and storing the required information.


The number of applicants taking the exam and the number of questions will be the first two things the software will request. 
After that, it will generate a mark-tally chart that can be printed, which will further reduce the amount of time and manual work necessary from the user.

The evaluator shall write the marks in a specified 4 digit integer format <XXYY>, where XX is the roll number of the student and YY is the corresponding
question number in the evaluation sheet generated by the app.
(More detailed explanation and working screenshots was uploaded in submission g-form in pdf format)

Cases where the student gets 0 marks, the student is absent or a student skips a question has been specially taken care while designing the algorithm for calculating the marks.

Then, using his cell phone, the evaluator will scan the application sheet. The ML-powered Vision API scans the code in less than a minute and displays the results.
The algorithms created after that will organize the input specifically for each student, add up their grades question by question, and then save it in the database.


Following a successful scan and processing, the application shall allow the user to  view all the marks from a particular examination together within a single tab. 
Clicking on a particular exam tab opens up a new window containing the marks of each student, which further on clicking shows the question number wise distribution.

Therefore, the solution we've tried to come up with incorporates the available technologies such that a redundant operation like entering marks may be completed in a very short amount of time. 
This solution combines machine learning, the Google Cloud Vision API, online databases, and a variety of additional hardware and software components to offer a quick and efficient solution to the stated problem.


# How to run:

## Installation

Clone this repository and import into **Android Studio** though terminal
 
#or
 
1. Open Android Studio and make new project from Version Control
2. Select git and paste repo url
3. Sync Gradle and build project
4. Run on emulator

## Build variants
Use the Android Studio *Build Variants* button to choose between **production** and **staging** flavors combined with debug and release build types

## Generating APK
From Android Studio:
1. ***Run on Emulator with Internet Connection*** 
2. ***Or Generate Signed APK...***


